Abolish PSPSym from ABI (#114630)
dotnet/runtime: docs/design/coreclr/botr/clr-abi.md

Note that JIT64 does not implement this properly. The C# compiler used to always insert all necessary "step" blocks. The Roslyn C# compiler at one point did not, but then was changed to once again insert them.

> ## Funclet parameters

Reviewer: @dotnet/jit-contrib Are you ok with deleting the outdated information about the ABI used by earlier .NET versions from this doc?

Author: (I was thinking to keep it in some form as long as the R2R compatibility is retained.)

Reviewer: > R2R compatibility is retained

We have taken a hard break for .NET 10 for other reasons already, so we do not really need to worry about R2R compatibility with this one.

Reviewer 2: > @dotnet/jit-contrib Are you ok with deleting the outdated information about the ABI used by earlier .NET versions from this doc?

IMO, yes. I would expect to need to find the matching document in the appropriate servicing source tree to understand a previous ABI, rather than have the latest document cover all possible histories of the ABI.

> For filter funclets the VM sets the frame register to be the same as the parent function. For second pass funclets the VM restores only the frame register on AMD64 and all non-volatile registers on all other platforms.

Reviewer 2: The deleted "NativeAOT" comment says that 2nd pass funclets are the same on AMD64 and other platforms. Should you keep this comment?

Is there a reason why AMD64 only restores the frame pointer and not all the non-volatile registers for non-NativeAOT?

Author: I originally planned to align AMD64 and restore the registers too, but I reverted it in https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/114630/commits/c97c7cf6f0aafdc0e8cf454a948c3ff5623778a7. There was a concern that the additional state saving/restoring may affect performance. Given that JIT doesn't take advantage of the restored context (https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/114630#issuecomment-2810210759) I decided to revert to the previous CoreCLR behavior. We can address this separately.

Author: (Fixing the documentation should be done in this PR though, so I will try to rewrite it to keep the original NativeAOT comment.)

Author: There was duplicate information between `Funclet parameters` and `Registers on entry to a funclet` sections. I moved all the information about registers to the later.

The *PSPSym* (which stands for Previous Stack Pointer Symbol) is a pointer-sized local variable used to access locals from the main function body.
For filter funclets the VM sets the frame register to be the same as the parent function. For second pass funclets the VM restores all non-volatile registers. The same convention is used across all platforms.

NativeAOT does not use PSPSym. For filter funclets the VM sets the frame register to be the same as the parent function. For second pass funclets the VM restores all non-volatile registers. The same convention is used across all platforms.

CoreCLR uses PSPSym for all platforms except x86: the frame pointer on x86 is always preserved when the handlers are invoked.

First, two definitions.

> *Caller-SP* is the value of the stack pointer in a function's caller before the call instruction is executed. That is, when function A calls function B, Caller-SP for B is the value of the stack pointer immediately before the call instruction in A (calling B) was executed. Note that this definition holds for both AMD64, which pushes the return value when a call instruction is executed, and for ARM, which doesn't. For AMD64, Caller-SP is the address above the call return address.

Reviewer 3: This part of the document: https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/7be6fff625f00111b428bba03cd573445d8701c4/docs/design/coreclr/botr/clr-abi.md#L675 still refers to "previously explained" section, which seems to be around these definitions. Should that be reworded? (unless the plan is to get rid of remains of PSPSym from VM and GC as well)

> Catch, Filter, and Filter-handlers also get an Exception object (GC ref) as an argument (`REG_EXCEPTION_OBJECT`). On AMD64 it is passed in RCX (Windows ABI) or RSI (Unix ABI). On ARM and ARM64 this is the first argument and passed in R0.

Author: Using ECX/RSI again in the latest version...

When an exception occurs, the VM is invoked to do some processing. If the exception is within a "try" region, it eventually calls a corresponding handler (which also includes calling filters). The exception location within a function might be where a "throw" instruction executes, the point of a processor exception like null pointer dereference or divide by zero, or the point of a call where the callee threw an exception but did not catch it.

The VM sets the frame register to be the same as the parent function. This allows the funclets to access local variables using frame-relative addresses.

> On CoreCLR/AMD64, all other register values that existed at the exception point in the corresponding "try" region are trashed on entry to the funclet. That is, the only registers that have known values are those of the funclet parameters and the frame register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For filter funclets and on CoreCLR/AMD64 for all funclets, all other register values that existed at the exception point in the corresponding "try" region are trashed on entry to the funclet. That is, the only registers that have known values are those of the funclet parameters and the frame register. 
```
We do not seem to restore the full context for filter funclets.

> On all other platforms and NativeAOT/AMD64, all non-volatile registers are restored to their values at the exception point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other funclets on all platforms except CoreCLR/AMD64, all non-volatile registers are restored to their values at the exception point. The JIT codegen [does not take advantage of it currently](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/114630#issuecomment-2810210759).
```
